DB-1052: Configuring Build Hooks Documentation (#485)
pantheon-systems/decoupled-kit-js: web/docs/Backend Starters/Decoupled WordPress/configuring-build-hooks.md

---
id: 'configuring-build-hooks'

> title: 'Configuring Build Hooks'

Reviewer: Right now the hooks can only build, but in the future they may be able to do other things. Should we be more generic here and call them 'Webhooks'? That way the doc can be "Configuring Webhooks" with a section on how to configure a "build hook".
cc @backlineint

Author: I agree that a more generic name might be a better fit but since our UI uses the `Build Hook` naming I think it makes since to keep it consistent to that.

slug: '/backend-starters/decoupled-wordpress/configuring-build-hooks'

> sidebar_position: 2

Reviewer: 2 is currently taken, i think this one is 5. We need a better system for this though, it's not fun to manage "by hand".

---

> 

Reviewer: Maybe there's an opportunity for a sweet Mermaid template here? Maybe too much work for little gain, but could be neat.

For a decoupled technology stack, build hooks bring back a way to kick off and
provide updates to a user’s site that is often lost when moving away from
tightly coupled ecosystems. This feature allow user's to quickly trigger new
builds of a site when updates are made on their blog, CMS or other data source.
With build hooks, when a configured source of data is updated a deployment is
triggered for it's corresponding front-end site.

> ## Install and Activate WP Webhooks Plugin

Reviewer: I think this section could flow a bit better if it falls under a single heading like "Create A Buildhook" or something like that
```
## Create Your First Buildhook
### Install And Activate WP Webhooks Plugin
### Trigger A Build On Content Update And Publish
### Trigger A Build For Multiple Frontend Environments
```

> ## Install and Activate WP Webhooks Plugin

Reviewer: oops, nvm on this!

- Install and activate the
  [WP-Webhooks Plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-webhooks/).

> ## Creating a Build Hook That Triggers When a Post Is Created Or Updated.

Reviewer: Title Case
```suggestion
## Creating A Build Hook That Triggers When A Post Is Created Or Updated.
```

Reviewer: I was wrong here too, this is correct.

First, navigate to your Pantheon Dashboard and select the site you would like to
generate a build hook for. Open your site's settings, under the **Builds** tab,
click **Add Build Hook**. Name your hook and select a branch to target using the
**Branch to Build** dropdown. Copy the generated build hook URL.

Next, navigate to your WordPress development site and open the WP Webhooks
plugin dashboard, click on the **Send Data** tab. Select the **Post Created**
Webhook trigger. Click **Add Webhook URL**, name the hook and paste the build
hook URL that you generated earlier, submit this form. Repeat this process for

> the **Post Updated** trigger.

Reviewer: Wondering if this section is better as a numbered list?

1. Navigate to the Pantheon Dashboard
2. Open the site's settings
3. etc...

To test the functionality of this new build hook, create a new Post or update a

> previously existing one. Once either of these actions are completed, navigate to

Reviewer: Does `Publish` need to be hit too? Or is updating the content and saving enough?

Author: Clicking 'Add a Post' is enough to trigger the hook before saving or publishing

your sites **Site Overview** page in the Pantheon Dashboard and observe that a
new build has been triggered following these actions.

> ## Creating Build Hooks For Multiple Frontend Environments.

Reviewer: remove `.`
```suggestion
## Creating Build Hooks For Multiple Frontend Environments
```

The WP Webhooks plugin allows multiple build hooks to be added under a single
action. This feature can be used to trigger builds in multiple feature branches
based off of content updates in one WordPress instance.

To accomplish this, navigate to your sites settings in the Pantheon Dashboard.
Under the **Builds** tab, click **Add Build Hook**. In the modal, name your hook
and use the **Branch to Build** dropdown to select the feature branch you would
like this hook to target. Repeat this build hook creation process for all
frontend environments you would like an action rebuild.

Once all of your build hooks are created, navigate to your WordPress development
site and open the WP Webhooks plugin dashboard. Click on the **Send Data** tab
and select your desired Webhook trigger. Click **Add Webhook URL**, name the
hook and add one of your previously generated build hook URL's before submitting

> this form. Repeat this process for each of your generated build hooks.

Reviewer: Same here, numbered list?

---
id: 'configuring-build-hooks'
title: 'Configuring Build Hooks'
slug: '/backend-starters/decoupled-wordpress/configuring-build-hooks'
sidebar_position: 5
---

## Create Your First Build Hook

### What Are Build Hooks?

Build hooks enable certain events in the CMS to trigger builds of a decoupled
frontend; such as content updates to post, or publishing a new page.

### Install and Activate WP Webhooks Plugin

- Install and activate the
  [WP-Webhooks Plugin](https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-webhooks/).

### Creating a Build Hook That Triggers When a Post Is Created Or Updated

1. Navigate to the Pantheon Dashboard
1. Open the site's settings
1. Under the **Builds** tab, Click **Add Build Hook**
1. Name your hook and select a branch to target using the **Branch to Build**

>    dropdown. Copy this URL

Reviewer: Forgot to mention this on the first round; Do we want to leave this portion for the platform docs? That way we can keep this doc a bit more platform neutral.

marking similar parts with +

Author: That is a good point. I agree I think it makes sense to leave the build hook generation to the platform docs.

> 1. Navigate to your WordPress development site and open the WP Webhooks plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your WordPress admin dashboard and open the WP Webhooks plugin
```
I think "admin dashboard" is a bit more idiomatic here.

   dashboard
1. Click on the **Send Data** tab
1. Select the **Post Created** Webhook trigger
1. Click **Add Webhook URL**, name the hook and paste the build hook URL that
   you generated earlier, submit this form
1. Repeat steps 7 and 8 to create a hook for the **Post Updated** trigger

#### Testing The Post Build Hook

> 1. Open your WordPress development site

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your WordPress admin dashboard
```

1. Create a new Post or update a previously existing one
1. Navigate to your sites **Site Overview** page in the Pantheon Dashboard

> 1. Observe that a new build has been triggered

Reviewer: \+

### Creating Build Hooks For Multiple Frontend Environments

The WP Webhooks plugin allows multiple build hooks to be added under a single
action. This feature can be used to trigger builds in multiple feature branches
based off of content updates in one WordPress instance.

1. Navigate to the Pantheon Dashboard
1. Open the site's settings
1. Under the **Builds** tab click **Add Build Hook**
1. Name your hook and use the **Branch to Build** dropdown to select the feature

>    branch you would like this hook to target

Reviewer: \+

> ###### Repeat these 4 steps for all frontend environments you would like to create a build hook for

Reviewer: Might be better as a docusaurus `note` instead of an h6
```suggestion
:::note

Repeat these 4 steps for any frontend environment that requires a build hook

:::
```

> 1. Navigate to your WordPress development site

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your WordPress admin dashboard
```

### Creating a Build Hook That Triggers When a Post Is Created Or Updated

> 1. After generating a build hook in the Pantheon Dashboard, navigate to your

Reviewer: Be even more ambigous about where the buildhook came from. Write these docs as if Pantheon doesn't exist (weird I know, but I think it helps 😄). Maybe something like the following:

```suggestion
1. After generating a build hook on your build platform,
```

Author: Awesome that idea gets the point across. TY

   WordPress admin dashboard and open the WP Webhooks plugin interface
1. Click on the **Send Data** tab
1. Select the **Post Created** Webhook trigger
1. Click **Add Webhook URL**, name the hook and paste the build hook URL that
   you generated, submit this form
1. Repeat the previous two steps to create a hook for the **Post Updated**
   trigger

#### Testing The Post Build Hook

1. Open your WordPress admin dashboard
1. Create a new Post or update a previously existing one
1. Observe that a new build has been triggered in the **Site Overview** page of

>    your Pantheon Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  your build platform
```
